Basic Questions Web Development
-------------------------------

1. What is HTML ?
Ans: 
HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. It's a programming language that defines the structure and content of web pages. HTML is the standard markup language for Web pages.
HTML elements are the building blocks of HTML pages. HTML elements are represented by <> tags. HTML is a text-based approach that tells a web browser how to display text, images, 
and other multimedia on a webpage. 

A simple example of HTML is :
<!DOCTYPE>
<html>
<head>
<title>Physics Wallah</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>HTML Media Assignment</h1>
<p>Payel Jana</p>
</body>
</html>

Output:

Physics Wallah ( <title> tag is used to add title of that HTML page which appears at the top of the browser window. )
HTML Media Assignment ( <h1> tag describes the first level heading of the webpage. )
Payel Jana ( <p> tag describes the paragraph of the webpage. )


2. What is CSS ?
Ans:
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. It is a style sheet language which is used to describe the look and formatting of a document written in markup language. 
It provides an additional feature to HTML. It is generally used with HTML to change the style of web pages and user interfaces. It can also be used with any kind
of XML documents including plain XML, SVG and XUL. 
CSS is used along with HTML and JavaScript in most websites to create user interfaces for web applications and user interfaces for many mobile applications.

CSS can do :
We can add new looks to our old HTML documents.
We can completely change the look of our website with only a few changes in CSS code.

3. What is the difference between front-end and back-end development ?
Ans:
Essentially, the difference between frontend and backend web development is that frontend serves the client side (what we see on the front i.e. a screen) and backend 
supports the server side (what’s under the hood of a website).

Frontend Development :  

This is known as Client side.
Language used HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
Tools used like Express, Angular, JQuery, Django, SASS.

Backend Development :

This is known as Server side.
Language used Ruby, JavaScript, Python, Java.
Tools used like Node.js, MongoDB, Flask, PostgreSQL.

Frontend and Backend both play very important roles in web development.

4. What is JavaScript ?
Ans:
JavaScript (JS) is a text-based programming language used both on the client-side and server-side that allows us to make web pages interactive. It is one of the 
three core technologies of World Wide Web content production (along with HTML and CSS).

JavaScript is used to make web pages interactive and can be used to add dynamic content, animations, and other features to websites. It is also used to create web 
applications and games.

JavaScript is a high-level, interpreted programming language. This means that it is relatively easy to learn and use, and that it does not need to be compiled before 
it can be run. JavaScript is also a very versatile language, and can be used for a wide variety of tasks.

JavaScript can be used for:

i. Adding dynamic content to web pages, such as menus, forms, and data tables.
ii. Creating animations and other visual effects.
iii. Validating user input.

JavaScript is a powerful language that can be used to create a wide variety of interactive web pages and web applications.

5. What is a responsive web design ?
Ans:
Responsive web design (RWD) is a design approach that allows websites to automatically adapt to the screen size of the device they are being viewed on. 
The goal is to ensure that the website retains its optimal appearance and usability regardless of the device it's being viewed on. 

Responsive Web Design uses a combination of flexible grids and layouts, images, and CSS media queries. 
 It also uses fluid grids and fluid layouts. 
 Fluid grids are grid systems that scale based on the user's screen, ensuring that all elements resize in relation to one another. 
 Fluid layouts use relative units and percentages to define the size and positioning of elements within a website's layout. 

Some types of responsive web design include:
Adaptive design.
Fluid design.
Fluid-responsive layout.

Some elements of responsive web design include: 
Mobile navigation, 
Flexible visuals, 
Fluid grids. 
